Yoga for peace
Nadia should be
the word Nadi should be literally means
cleansing the Nadi's when we say noddies
we are not talking about the 72,000
because these 72,000 are only a
brainchild of the two basic Nadi's the
pingala and the eda 36,000 branching out
from Pingala 36,000 branching out from
EDA this is the energy physiology of a
human being when we say not it should be
we are talking about cleansing
fundamentally the pingala and EDA so
that energy system will work in balance
there is a connection between your
breath and your mental structure to
bring balance to your thought is a very
important step that you need to take if
you want to bring balance to your
activity your emotion and the results of
your life and the impact that you have
in other people's lives not it should be
plays an important role
here are a few guidelines that will set
optimal conditions and greatly enhance
your receptivity of the practices please
ensure cell phones are either in silent
mode or switched off it is advisable not
to sit for the program with a full
stomach or immediately after a meal
please sit with your spine comfortably
erect hands uncrossed and palms open
these conditions will prepare you to be
in a heightened state a receptivity and
derive the most benefits from the
practices these practices are very safe
and simple and can be done by anybody
the practices we'll be learning here can
be done by anyone ages 7 years and above
if you wear glasses while doing the yoga
practices please remove them and keep
them aside how to do Nadi should be she
will demonstrate please observe sit in a
cross-legged posture with your spine
comfortably erect eyes closed left hand
should be loosely placed in the middle
of your lap palm facing upwards use only
your right hand use your thumb and ring
finger fold your middle and index
fingers the ring and little finger are
held straight and side by side touching
now block your right nostril with your
thumb and inhale through your left
nostril
after the inhalation is complete exhale
through the same in a similar fashion
using the ring finger block your left
nostril and inhale through the right
nostril then exhale through the same
again block the right and open the left
inhale and exhale
continue like this be focused on your
breath so when you do this Nadi should
be what is most important is to breathe
fully in and fully out as slowly and as
gently as it is possible for you you
should not make any sound when you
exhale or inhale so for this to happen
you just need to remember one basic
point so that Nadi should be happens by
itself you will always switch after
every exhalation
so that means whichever nostril you
inhale through the same nostril you
exhale through you do not it should be
for a minimum of four minutes a few
Corrections for the practice do not keep
your left hand on the thigh the left
hand should be loosely placed in the
middle of your lap to clarify on the
right hand you use only your thumb and
ring finger the ring and little finger
are held straight and are side by side
touching hold your middle and index
fingers
if you are unable to hold them straight
do it as best you can
you
also there's a tendency to keep the head
down or turn to one side
unconsciously your face may tilt one way
or the other your head should be
straight if you maintain this your
system will come to a balance very
quickly ensure not to press too hard on
the lower part of the nostril locate the
septal bone on your right nostril just a
millimeter beneath that if you place the
thumb with very minimal pressure you can
block the nostril effectively so that no
air can escape ensure you are not
breathing shallow doing normal breathing
or holding the breath the breathing
should be fully in and fully out we will
do not II should DEET together now
sit in a cross-legged posture with your
spine comfortably erect if you are
unable to sit on the floor you can sit
in a chair with your legs crossed at the
ankles left hand should be loosely
placed in the middle of your lap palm
facing upward use only your right hand
use your thumb and ring finger fold your
middle and index fingers the ring and
little finger are held straight and are
side by side touching close your eyes
now block your right nostril with your
thumb and inhale through your left
nostril
after the inhalation is complete exhale
through the same
now using the ring finger block your
left nostril and inhale through the
right nostril then exhale through the
same
again block the right and open the left
inhale
and exhale
to do this until we ask you to stop
be focused on your breath
the breathing is fully in and fully out
do it as low
gently as you can
you
make sure your spine is comfortably
erect
you
ensure your head is straight
continue to be focused on your breath
you
you can end with an exhalation
left nostril and star
please slowly open your eyes this is not
the ultimate goal of life it is the most
fundamental requirement if you hold it
as the ultimate goal in your life you
will only rest in peace
you